My Approach

I've used CoPilot Visual Studio and Junie in Rider as AI assistants.

The payment request needs to validate the request from the merchant before
calling the acquiring bank.

The spec states that gateway will return "Rejected" if the request is malformed.
The requirements of the challenge state "Your API design and architecture should be focused on meeting the functional requirements outlined above."
I've used the framework's validation features in my DTOs, which ordinarily means that the controller
would return "BadRequest" for malformed requests before the controller's post method is even invoked.
In order to stick strictly to the spec, I have disabled the filtering in the Program.cs file in order
to enter the controller's PostPayment method, validate manually and return the enum value.
However, this not idiomatic and potentially error prone, so recommend sticking to HTTP codes and deviating from the spec.
In a real world scenario, I would discuss this requirement with the team to confirm current
expectations from existing merchants.

If the request is valid, the gateway will use client to post the request to JSON message
to the acquiring bank.

The response from the acquiring bank will be returned to the merchant.
The requirements doc says that "payments that were sucessfully sent to the acquiring bank 
must include the following fields ... Status	Must be one of the following values Authorized, Declined"

The acquiring bank may return 503 if the service is unavailable. In this case, for this phase, I will
return "Rejected" to the merchant.
Return a failure HTTP error code to the merchant at this point might be more idiomatic.
In the future, we can implement retry logic to handle this case, perhaps using a library like Polly 
to handle transient faults.

If the acquiring bank returns a response with a 200 status code, we will store the transaction details in the repository, 
including the status of the transaction (Authorized or Declined).
Only the last 4 digits of the card number will be stored for security reasons.

The gateway will return the acquiring bank's response to the merchant, including 
    - the last 4 digits of the card number 
    - the status of the transaction.

I've used attributes on the DTOs to enforce the lengths of the credit card number.
